# Uses for Anonymous Device Identifiers #
Why does having access to an anonymous device identifier benefit the mobile ecosystem? The following is a list of current and future innovations that have occurred since the dawn of the modern mobile era. Each story details how an application of an anonymous device identifier benefits consumers, developers, and service providers.

## Anonymous Personalization ##
One of the simplest ways developers use anonymous device identifiers is anonymous user personalization. Developers associate a user’s preferences with an anonymous device identifier instead of having him or her volunteer additional personal information (e.g., email address) to identify those preferences. This lowers the barrier to entry for users and allows developers to reach a wider audience.

Also, developers can anonymously transfer user preferences across their applications using anonymous device identifiers. Because of mobile application sandboxing security models, without an anonymous identifier at the device level, developers could not tell if a device had more than one of their applications installed. This would prevent their users from anonymously associating global preferences with their device. Instead they would need to associate the preferences with personal information (e.g., email address) that would increase the barrier to entry for consumers and unnecessarily opens up developers to the liability of collecting and storing additional personal information.

## Advertisement Frequency Capping ##
Another common use case for anonymous device identifiers is frequency capping advertisements in the advertising industry. Advertisers want to reach the widest possible audience with their messages and would ideally prefer that each user only sees each advertisement a limited number of times. If a user does not engage with an advertisement the first time they see it, why would the advertiser want to spend money showing it to him or her over and over again?

By associating advertisement viewing with anonymous device identifiers, advertisers currently have the ability to limit the number of times an advertisement is shown on a device. Without an anonymous device identifier, advertisers waste money showing advertisements to users that are uninterested, and consumers are subjected to more repetitive advertisements that they find undesirable.

## Verifying Application Installations ##
A more recent use of anonymous device identifiers in the mobile application space is virtual currency. Here’s how it works:

  1. Developer X releases an Application X with an in-game currency system.
  1. Developer Y runs a promotion with Developer X to increase the user base of his Application Y. Every time a user of application X installs Application Y, developer Y will pay developer X.
  1. Developer X makes tells the users of application X that if they install application Y, they will receive in game currency.
  1. Application X notes the anonymous device identifier of which users express intent in install application Y.
  1. Application Y notes the anonymous device identifier of users that install it.
  1. Comparing the anonymous device identifier, Developer X and Developer Y can verify the transaction.
  1. Developer Y then pays Developer X and Developer X credits users with the in game currency.

Using an anonymous device identifier, developers can make money and promote their apps while users can enjoy free applications and rewards. Without such an identifier, it would not be possible to verify application installations without additional personal information (e.g., email address). This introduces an adoption barrier for related revenue opportunities for developers as well as increases the cost of applications for consumers.

## Do Not Track Registry ##
Just as consumers can opt-out their telephone numbers from intrusive marketing calls via the National Do Not Call registry, having an anonymous device identifier allows consumers to opt-out their devices from intrusive tracking via a Do Not Track Registry .

Without a standardized anonymous device identifier, every device might have multiple identifiers including, but not limited to, those generated by different developers, companies, or accounts. This would make a Do Not Track Registry infeasible. Imagine if every time that you gave out your phone number, you gave out a different one. Having to register every single one of those numbers in the National Do Not Call registry would be make such a solution frustrating and unworkable.